Double-negation Shift [DNS], or Kuroda's Conjecture, is a logical
principle independent of intuitionistic logic, and provable in
classical logic, whose foundational importance has been realized by
Kreisel who noticed that DNS proves the double-negation translation of
the Axiom of Choice. DNS thus allows to prove the relative consistency
of classical Analysis with respect to intuitionistic Arithmetic [HA]
(plus DNS). Following Kreisel, Spector showed that the Dialectica
interpretation of DNS can be proved by functions definable from
extending higher-type primitive recursion by so called bar
recursion. This approach, Dialectica interpretation plus bar
recursion, has so far been the most fruitful one when it comes to
extracting programs from proofs in classical Analysis, as can be seen
from Kohlenbach's Proof Mining programme.

Recently, the speaker, based on observations of Herbelin, built a
logical system around delimited control operators, from the theory of
programming languages, that can derive DNS in pure logic i.e. in
absence of arithmetic axioms. In this talk, I will speak about DNS in
presence of arithmetic, showing that HA+DNS still satisfies the
Disjunction and Existence properties and can hence be considered a
constructive logical system. Moreover, HA+DNS satisfies a form of
Church's Rule that says that from a proof of a closed sentence,
\forall n \exists m (A(n,m)), one can extract a recursive function f 
such that \forall n (A(n,f(n))) is provable. However, it is a known 
fact that DNS refutes the formal version of Church's Thesis. 
I will discuss these and related issues from the meta-theory of 
constructive systems. At the end, I will show an application of DNS 
(joint work with Keiko Nakata), based on work of Veldman, to 
extracting a new realizer for Open Induction on Cantor space by 
delimited control operators.
